# memphis
MEMPHIS is a multi-physics phase-field modeling capability. The acronym MEMPHIS stands for Mesoscale Multi-Physics Phase-Field Simulator. It is freely available to researchers around the world under the terms of the GNU General Public License.

The current version of the code can be requested from the corresponding author (rdingre@sandia.gov) and is distributed at the discretion of Sandia National Laboratories through the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (CINT) User Program.

MEMPHIS is written in modular Fortran to enable rapid model development and prototyping, and performs 2D and 3D calculations in serial or in parallel using message-passing techniques and spatial decomposition of the computational domain. The modular framework of MEMPHIS is designed such that any user can focus solely on the development and implementation of a self-contained physics-based model without the need for extensive software-development experience to seamlessly integrate a user’s model in MEMPHIS. The current capability (i.e., 2019) comprises a spinodal decomposition model, dendritic growth model, a physical vapor deposition model, a quantum dot growth model, and a linear elasticity model.Researchers active in the field of coevolution of microstructure and physical properties at the mesoscale are encouraged to participate in the project by contributing/implementing their own models into MEMPHIS.

To validate both the correctness of the numerical methods and models, along with the overall capabilities implemented in MEMPHIS, we utilized published phase-field benchmark problems to verify and validate every component of this phase-field capability. These benchmark problems are described elsewhere [2,3] and are available on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) “PFHub” repository website (https://pages.nist.gov/pfhub/).

[1] J.A. Stewart and R. Dingreville. Microstructure morphology and concentration modulation of nanocomposite thin-films during simulated physical vapor deposition. Acta Mater., in press., 2020.
[2] A.M. Jokisaari, P.W. Voorhees, J.E. Guyer, J. Warren, and O.G. Heinonen. Benchmark problems for numerical implementations of phase-field models. Comput. Mater. Sci., 126:139–151, 2017.
[3] A.M. Jokisaari, P.W. Voorhees, J.E. Guyer, J. Warren, and O.G. Heinonen. Phase-field benchmark problems for dendritic growth and linear elasticity. Comput. Mater. Sci., 149:336–347, 2018.
